DOCSP-12260 Document JsonObject (#57)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/data-formats/documents.txt

     - Yes, implements ``Map<String, BsonValue>``
     - When you need a type-safe API.

   * - ``JsonObject``
     - ``org.bson.json``
     - No

>      - When you need to work with JSON strings.

Reviewer: I would mention that this is when you "only want to work with JSON strings" since this page also shows how to parse and convert JSON with Document.

Author: Thanks for the feedback Chris. I agree that "only want to work with JSON strings" is more accurate and helpful language. The update is made in https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/d818607f965d55cf8de602028b8ef15e1525878d.

   title: Chronicle of a Death Foretold, yearPublished: 1981
   title: Love in the Time of Cholera, yearPublished: 1985

For more information on this class, see the
:java-docs:`BsonDocument API documentation </apidocs/bson/org/bson/BsonDocument.html>`.

JsonObject
-------------

The ``JsonObject`` class acts as a wrapper for JSON strings.
If you only want to work with JSON data, you can use ``JsonObject``
to avoid unnecessary data conversion to a ``Map`` object.

By default, ``JsonObject`` stores :manual:`Extended JSON </reference/mongodb-extended-json/>`.

> You can customize the format of JSON in ``JsonObject`` by specifying a

Reviewer 2: > by specifying

Consider showing how, since it's not straightforward: you need to create an instance of JsonObjectCodec and add it to a CodecRegistry.

Author: Thanks for the feedback Jeff. I added a code example section where we specify Relaxed mode JSON through a JsonObjectCodec: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/462dac7a56e1fdacb8954c065fcc5a844711a739

Let me know if this is inaccurate or unsatisfactory.

To insert this document into a collection, instantiate a collection using
:java-docs:`getCollection() </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoDatabase.html#getCollection(java.lang.String,java.lang.Class)>`,
specifying the ``JsonObject`` class as the ``documentClass`` parameter. Then, call the
:doc:`insertOne </usage-examples/insertOne>` operation as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   // MongoClient mongoClient = <code to instantiate your client>;

   MongoDatabase database = mongoClient.getDatabase("fundamentals_data");
   MongoCollection<JsonObject> collection = database.getCollection("authors", JsonObject.class);

   InsertOneResult result = collection.insertOne(author);

Once you perform a successful insert, you can retrieve the sample JSON data from the 
collection. While you can use any class that extends ``Bson`` to specify your query,
here is how to query your data using a ``JsonObject``:

.. code-block:: java

   // MongoClient mongoClient = <code to instantiate your client>;

   JsonObject query = new JsonObject("{\"name\": \"Gabriel Garc\\u00eda M\\u00e1rquez\"}");
   JsonObject jsonResult = collection.find(query).first();
   if (jsonResult != null) {

>        System.out.println("extended json string: " + jsonResult.getJson());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       System.out.println("query result in extended json format: " + jsonResult.getJson());
```

Reviewer: If you accept this suggestion, please update the output on line 352 too

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree that language is clearer. Updated here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/bfc94e306185532004e5159719e3a048ff009a68

For more information on this class, see the
:java-docs:`BsonDocument API documentation </apidocs/bson/org/bson/BsonDocument.html>`.

JsonObject
-------------

The ``JsonObject`` class acts as a wrapper for JSON strings.

> ``JsonObject`` is a more performant alternative to both ``Document``

Reviewer: This claim is only true if you're only interested in using the JSON representation of the document, and not a Map. Let's avoid claims about performance, especially ones that depend on specific conditions, in the documentation if possible. Instead you can reword it to still mention it can have advantages, e.g.
"If you only want to work with JSON data, you can use JsonObject to avoid unnecessary data conversion to a Map"

Reviewer: You can also mention that it's more efficient to avoid the data conversion, but performance and efficiency are actually different.

Reviewer: You can also mention that it's more efficient to avoid the data conversion, but performance and efficiency are actually different. The former implies some controlled measurement and the latter is related to the number of and complexity of operations.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. I updated the section to use the new language here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/4c9a8eba6f681feb0f9a2c6510b812f85914e565

Takeaways:

Be careful of using the word 'Performant' as it has a precise meaning requiring detailed measurement. Efficiency is generally a better word for our purposes as it has to do with number of code operations.

In the following code snippet, we show how to instantiate a sample ``JsonObject`` 
instance wrapping an Extended JSON string containing different types of key value pairs:

.. code-block:: java

   String ejsonStr =  "{"
                     +" \"_id\": {"
                     +"  \"$oid\": \"6035210f35bd203721c3eab8\""
                     +" },"
                     +" \"name\": \"Gabriel Garc\\u00eda M\\u00e1rquez\","
                     +" \"dateOfDeath\": {"
                     +"  \"$date\": \"2014-04-17T04:00:00Z\""
                     +" },"
                     +" \"novels\": ["
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1967"
                     +"  },"
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"Chronicle of a Death Foretold\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1981"
                     +"  },"
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"Love in the Time of Cholera\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1985"
                     +"  }"
                     +" ]"

>                      +"}";

Reviewer: Is there some way we can shorten this example, or all of these fields necessary to demonstrate this concept? In some cases, it can be helpful to see how different types are represented, but we should always try to justify inclusion of the data included in examples.

Author: Hi Chris, thank you for the feedback. I am implementing the formatting changes we discussed in our brief meeting around this comment. I am changing the ejsonStr variable assignment to have top level key-value pairs take a single line, and array values (regardless of type) take up a single line. This change is in https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/15acfb1b10cf43757e2252ec4d4ef72743e3de6a

Takeaways:

Going forward, I will try to pay attention to the length to content ratio of my code snippets. I will try to balance readability with brevity.

   JsonObject author = new JsonObject(ejsonStr);

To insert this document into a collection, instantiate a collection using

> :java-docs:`getCollection()</apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoDatabase.html#getCollection(java.lang.String,java.lang.Class)>`,

Reviewer: While the snooty parser usually can parse this, make sure to separate by a space as the part before the angled braces could contain an angled brace itself.
```suggestion
:java-docs:`getCollection() </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoDatabase.html#getCollection(java.lang.String,java.lang.Class)>`,
```

Author: Thanks for the note. I am committing your suggestion.

Takeaway:

Always separate link text from ling angle bracket to avoid possible issue where link text angle bracket is mistaken for angle bracket signaling start of link.

> specifying the ``JsonObject`` class. Then, call the

Reviewer: Since there are more than one parameters, it's helpful to identify which one you're referring to.
```suggestion
specifying the ``JsonObject`` class as the document class parameter. Then, call the
```

Author: Thanks for the feedback. This language was inherited from the `BsonDocument` and `BasicDBObject` sections. I agree that mentioning the specific `getCollection` parameter name is more precise. The three instances of this language are changed in https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/18fa5aa6a68b6b373c46094f70716616c653e457

:doc:`insertOne </usage-examples/insertOne>` operation as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   // MongoClient mongoClient = <code to instantiate your client>;

   MongoDatabase database = mongoClient.getDatabase("fundamentals_data");
   MongoCollection<JsonObject> collection = database.getCollection("authors", JsonObject.class);

   InsertOneResult result = collection.insertOne(author);

Once you perform a successful insert, you can retrieve the sample JSON data from the 

> collection using the following code:

Reviewer: Nitpick: I would recommend mentioning whether you need to use a JsonObject for the query as I'm not sure it was mentioned earlier and could be confusing.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. This language is directly copied from the other three sections of the page. For example here is the version for the [BasicDBObject section](https://github.com/biniona-mongodb/docs-java/blob/master/source/fundamentals/data-formats/documents.txt#L331). Would you like the four sections updated to resemble:

```suggestion
Once you perform a successful insert, you can retrieve the sample JSON data from the 
collection using using a `JsonObject` query:
```

Reviewer: Sorry, after investigating the driver codebase, it looks like this only needs to be an object that is a subclass of `Bson` which means you can use a `JsonObject`, `BsonDocument`, `Document`, `Filter` class helper method, etc. I would probably change this sentence and all similar instances to indicate that you're specifically showing how to query using that specific class. E.g.
While you can use any class that extends `Bson` to specify your query, here is how to query your data using a `JsonObject`:

Author: Updated the language around using a `JsonObject` query here https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/1b26a7ec186aab78339cbe21acf055165db0aac9. I only did it for `JsonObject` as the other sections use the `Filters` class to query for results. I missed this at the time of writing, but I think it is nice that `JsonObject` uses JSON for its query as it is for people interested in working with JSON strings.

.. code-block:: java

   // MongoClient mongoClient = <code to instantiate your client>;

   JsonObject query = new JsonObject("{\"name\": \"Gabriel Garc\\u00eda M\\u00e1rquez\"}");

>    JsonObject json = collection.find(query).first();

Reviewer: Nitpick:
I think `jsonResult` might be more descriptive of what the variable contains.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. I agree, `jsonResult` is a better variable name. Updated here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/eaa00b074edc3049d1690826f15cb8bd7c67f9dd

   if (json != null) {

>        //this is equivalent to System.out.println("raw extended json string: " + json);

Reviewer: 1) Formatting is off for a comment, it should contain a space after the "//" I don't think we have identified a specific Java code style guide we want to strictly follow, but I think the default Eclipse or IntelliJ ones will add the space.
2) Thanks for including information about this, but I'm not sure this makes sense. First, I'm not sure if you meant "raw" since it's just an extended json string. You might refer to a "raw" format as something that has some binary or unreadable data that needs conversion to read. Let's just remove this line. If you still want to show the user the equivalency between toJson and toString, you can add that in a "..note::" directive.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. Comment deleted and print statment updated here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/1d26176eac8a652261f7cd1511c6e3ba9430f451

output updated here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/26577c6da0c2e554f62a4410286f763c921ae80d

I don't think informing users about the equivalence of `toString` and `toJson` provides a lot of value, so I am personally okay with leaving it out.

       System.out.println("raw extended json string: " + json.getJson());
   }

The output should look something like this:

> .. code-block:: java

Reviewer: This is output and not java code, so we shouldn't specify the java pygments highlighter as it might look random depending on what keywords it picks up. I think "none" works here since it's a blend of text and JSON.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. Apologies, I will give output the none type going forward. Change is here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/26577c6da0c2e554f62a4410286f763c921ae80d

takeaway:

output gets code-block type `none`

   raw extended json string: {"_id": {"$oid": "6035210f35bd203721c3eab8"}, "name": "Gabriel García Márquez", "dateOfDeath": {"$date": "2014-04-17T04:00:00Z"}, "novels": [{"title": "One Hundred Years of Solitude", "yearPublished": 1967}, {"title": "Chronicle of a Death Foretold", "yearPublished": 1981}, {"title": "Love in the Time of Cholera", "yearPublished": 1985}]}

For more information on retrieving and manipulating MongoDB data, see our

> :doc:`CRUD guide </fundamentals/crud>`.

Reviewer: I see that this is copy-paste from the Document section, but it made sense there before this section existed. I'm not sure we intend to show CRUD using anything other than Documents in that section, so let's leave it out for now, and maybe update the other mention to specify Documents.

Author: Thanks for the feedback Chris. I believe this language is in all other sections on the page (`Document`, `BsonDocument`, and `BasicDBObject`). Would you like me to remove it from all sections except `Document`?

Reviewer: Yes, please.

Author: Done: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/8bcf7edf86b6d6546b08ffa27e25293ecf761ded

For more information on this class, see the
:java-docs:`BsonDocument API documentation </apidocs/bson/org/bson/BsonDocument.html>`.

JsonObject
-------------

> The ``JsonObject`` class acts as a wrapper for JSON strings.
> If you want to work primarily with JSON strings in your application, 
> use the ``JsonObject`` class. For applications that work with JSON
> strings, ``JsonObject`` is a more performant alternative to both ``Document``
> and ``BsonDocument`` as ``JsonObject`` does not create an intermediate
> ``Map`` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``JsonObject`` class acts as a wrapper for JSON strings.
``JsonObject`` is a more performant alternative to both ``Document``
and ``BsonDocument`` when working with JSON strings because it does not create an intermediate
``Map`` object.
```

Author: Thanks for the note Nathan. I agree that your suggested change is an improvement.

Takeaways:

Be careful of unnecessarily reusing words/rephrasing. Try to express linear thoughts.

By default, ``JsonObject`` stores :manual:`Extended JSON </reference/mongodb-extended-json/>`.

> You can customize the format of JSON in ``JsonObject`` by specyfying a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can customize the format of JSON in ``JsonObject`` by specifying a
```

Author: Good catch. I will use a use a spell checking tool on my next PR. Thanks for spotting this.

:java-docs:`JsonObjectCodec</apidocs/bson/org/bson/codecs/JsonObjectCodec.html>`
and passing it a
:java-docs:`JsonWriterSettings</apidocs/bson/org/bson/json/JsonWriterSettings.html>`
object. For more information on JSON formats, see
our :doc:`Extended JSON guide </fundamentals/data-formats/document-data-format-extended-json/>`.
For more information on specifying codecs, see our 
:doc:`Codecs guide </fundamentals/data-formats/codecs>`.

> In the following code snippet, we show how to instantiate a sample ``JsonObject`` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following snippet shows how to instantiate a sample ``JsonObject`` 
```

Author: Thanks for the note @terakilobyte. This language was inherited from other Documents subsections. For example:

> In the following code snippet, we show how to instantiate and build a sample Document instance representing a document containing several different field types:

I think the existing language is clearer, so I don't mind keeping it. If you feel strongly about this revision however, I can change the language in this and the other Documents subsections to match. Let me know your thoughts.

Reviewer: Either seems fine to me and I had an extended conversation about usage of "we"/"you" during my first large writing assignments. I prefer what you have as I word using "we" to involve reader and writer, but I think somewhere buried in the style guide is mention that writers should avoid "we".

                     +" },"
                     +" \"name\": \"Gabriel Garc\\u00eda M\\u00e1rquez\","
                     +" \"dateOfDeath\": {"
                     +"  \"$date\": \"2014-04-17T04:00:00Z\""
                     +" },"
                     +" \"novels\": ["
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1967"
                     +"  },"
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"Chronicle of a Death Foretold\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1981"
                     +"  },"
                     +"  {"
                     +"   \"title\": \"Love in the Time of Cholera\","
                     +"   \"yearPublished\": 1985"
                     +"  }"
                     +" ]"
                     +"}";
   JsonObject author = new JsonObject(ejsonStr);

To insert this document into a collection, instantiate a collection using
:java-docs:`getCollection()</apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoDatabase.html#getCollection(java.lang.String,java.lang.Class)>`,
specifying the ``JsonObject`` class. Then, call the

> :doc:`insertOne </usage-examples/insertOne>` operation as follows:

Reviewer 3: nitpick: ordering

Maybe we can break this up into steps and follow each step with the code that does the thing. Also, can the first sentence be rewritten to avoid using the same word so close together?

Author: Thanks for the feedback @terakilobyte. This language and code structure are inherited from the other examples on the page. For example: 

> To insert this document into a collection, instantiate a collection using getCollection(), specifying the BasicDBObject class. Then, call the insertOne operation as follows:

I think restructuring the examples in the Documents section is a separate unit of work from adding the `JsonObject` documentation. I think grouping this and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57#discussion_r581353216 into a separate ticket makes sense.  If you disagree, I can restructure the three sections as part of this PR however.

   query result in extended json format: {"_id": {"$oid": "6035210f35bd203721c3eab8"}, "name": "Gabriel García Márquez", "dateOfDeath": {"$date": "2014-04-17T04:00:00Z"}, "novels": [{"title": "One Hundred Years of Solitude", "yearPublished": 1967}, {"title": "Chronicle of a Death Foretold", "yearPublished": 1981}, {"title": "Love in the Time of Cholera", "yearPublished": 1985}]}

.. example::
   
   If you would like to work with other formats of JSON strings
   in your application, you can use the ``JsonObjectCodec`` class
   along with ``JsonWriterSettings`` to specify your desired JSON
   format.
   
   Below is a code example where where we read and write
   to our MongoDB instance using 

>    :manual:`Relaxed mode JSON </reference/mongodb-extended-json/>`

Reviewer 2: and output ObjectId instances as hex strings

Author: Thanks for the feedback Jeff. Good catch. Added  the line here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/57/commits/df9f4cbb9040b62d44a9e48c894e8af4dc99bc40
